### Article 1: 8 TikTok Challenges Started by Brands and what We can Learn from Them | Emplifi

TikTok isn't the first social media channel for challenges, but TikTok challenges are going viral. But are brands equipped to keep up with the Gen Z dominant platform TikTok? Some are finding ways to reach new audiences with this channel, and they're using creativity and influencers to launch some of the most engaging campaigns in the form of challenges.

On TikTok, challenges are the name of the game. Although it can be applied to any social media channel, challenges on TikTok happen when a user creates a hashtag accompanying a video and encourages others to do the same thing with their own creative take on it in their own video, using the same hashtag. Brands are creating their own challenges and on TikTok, that has been a big success so far. Check out these eight viral challenges started by brands on TikTok.

#### 1. Chipotle: #LidFlip
Chipotle is one of the most popular food chains amongst millennials and Gen Z, making the brand a natural fit for TikTok. The Chipotle #LidFlip challenge involves participants recording themselves attempting to flip the lid onto the bowl without using their hands. The idea behind the challenge was to promote their new Cinco de Mayo deal with free delivery. Fans found a fun new way to engage with the brand, and the brand was able to boost awareness and sales around a prominent event.

#### 2. GUESS: #InMyDenim
GUESS was one of the first major companies to partner with TikTok to host their #InMyDenim campaign in the U.S. They enlisted the help of many well-known influencers to promote their new denim jeans. The benefit of this strategy was that TikTok users who follow those content creators immediately hopped on to learn more about the challenge after seeing their favorite influencers take part in it. Moreover, followers were encouraged to record and share their own denim transformations. This gets people talking about the brand, thereby boosting the brand's engagement and customer base. With the help of this challenge, GUESS hit over 40 million views, and the videos continue to receive a lot of engagement. Not only does this give the fashion brand a competitive edge but also access to a larger customer pool. The increased exposure across the platform results in greater revenue generation through a new shopping experience.

#### 3. Crocs: #ThousandDollarCrocs
The famous footwear company, Crocs, created a challenge of its own called the #ThousandDollarCrocs challenge. The campaign originated from a Post Malone song lyric, and soon enough, it resulted in a partnership between the musician and the brand. This not only brought the brand a flood of engagement and hype; the product sold out remarkably fast. The challenge encouraged users to share what they think their $1000 crocs would look like featuring the hashtag, and it resulted in an 18% increase in their follower count. Ultimately, the brand succeeds in building a loyal online following while also generating new leads and potential sales.

#### 4. Calvin Klein: #MyCalvins
This fashion brand also hopped on the TikTok train and recruited some famous personalities to help show off their outfits using the #MyCalvins hashtag. Shawn Mendes is one of the advocates for the brand and helped them capitalize on the trend by sporting a Calvin Klein outfit in a short video. Furthermore, the campaign enlisted various other celebrities such as Kendall Jenner and A$AP Rocky, to feature their clothing items and cater to the company's audience on the platform. It helped Calvin Klein attract a diverse target audience and helped boost the online reputation and sales of the brand tremendously.

#### 5. MAC: #YouOwnIt
The #YouOwnIt campaign by MAC cosmetics has hit approximately 2.3 billion views on TikTok, and everyone's taken aback by how successful the campaign has been. The aim of the campaign was to boost the exposure of MAC among today's teenagers, and the best way to acquire those clicks was by leveraging the infamous TikTok app. Several fashion and lifestyle influencers promoted the hashtag, so it gained traction and, eventually, escalated to viral status. The campaign brought MAC immense exposure and positive impressions from anyone who partook in the challenge.

#### 6. elf Cosmetics: #eyeslipsface
The high-end makeup brand elf also leveraged TikTok's platform to expand its audience reach. elf dedicated a song specifically for their TikTok campaign #eyeslipsface, which was inspired by Kash Doll's hit "Ice Me Out." The song is named after the brand's very own acronym "Eyes Lips Face" and is known to be an original song commissioned for the campaign. Furthermore, with the help of some popular influencers to kick-start the campaign, the results started rolling, and they've been extraordinary. The volume of videos pouring in has been mind-blowing, and the current count stands at over 3.8 billion. What's more, this content now lives on the elf website as a content asset that helps bolster the brand's other channels.

#### 7. Fortnite: #EmoteRoyaleContest
Fortnite's TikTok presence resonates well with its Gen Z fans. It is so popular that with only 4 videos posted on their account, they already have approximately 1.3 million followers. Fortnite launched the campaign #EmoteRoyaleContest which asked TikTok users and followers to create and share dances that can be transformed into official emotes on Fortnite game characters. Who doesn't want a character based on them? The hashtag has since been used more than 250 million times and is widely popular amongst gamers and millennials. Users can enter the challenge by submitting their video and using the #EmoteRoyaleContest and win the chance to have their own in-game emote.

#### 8. HP: #HPCoachellaDreamland challenge
HP used the popularity of the Coachella music event by collaborating with many Tik Tok influencers, including OurFire (who has 5.3 million subscribers), to promote the brand with a younger generation. The hashtag challenge generated 176 million views in record time.

To TikTok and beyond
No matter what your current marketing strategy is, keeping a pulse on TikTok will separate in touch from out-of-touch brands. Whether you're looking to build a campaign, challenge, or work with influencers, it's important to see what's working already to set yourself up for success.

Nouman is an electrical engineer with a passion for writing, designing, and anything tech-related. His educational background in the technical field has given him the edge to write on many topics. He occasionally writes blog articles for Dynamologic Solutions, a Software house company in Pakistan. Editor's Note: This article was originally published on pixlee.com. Any statistics or statements included in this article were current at the time of original publication.

### Article 2: 21 Most Popular Social Media Challenges - IIM SKILLS

#### Top 21 Social Media Challenges

##### Social media Challenges #1 – Doodle Challenge
As the name suggests this challenge is about doodling. A person has to put a sheet on a person’s back and another sheet has to be placed in front of that person. Now, one has to doodle or draw something on the sheet that is attached to the back of the first person, and then this first person has to draw the same thing on the sheet that is put on his or her front side. While reading it might sound confusing but while doing it is quite an interesting challenge.

##### Social media Challenges # 2 – Don’t Rush Challenge
This challenge got really famous on social media as this was creative and fun at the same time. One had to cover the camera with a brush for few seconds after showing their non-makeup look with jammies or robes on and then once the brush was removed, they had to show a full makeup look or a glam look with glammed up outfits and then they had to pass the brush on to the other person virtually. This was quite a fun social media challenge which the crowd loved a lot. After “pass the brush challenge” many similar challenges were taken up on social media inspired by this challenge like “pass the phone challenge”, “pass the pocha challenge”, etc. Celebrities like Storm Reid, Skai Jackson, Riele Downs, Marsai Martin, Eris Baker, Shahadi Wright Joseph, Lexi Underwood, Kyla Drew Simmons, Prajakta Koli, etc. took up this challenge on social media.

##### Social media Challenges #3 – Don’t Leave Me Challenge
The idea behind this challenge was to share a horrible joke or a P.J and then run away from the camera shouting “Don’t Leave Me”. This challenge was all about how lame can an individual’s joke be. This was a very funny social media challenge enjoyed by the crowd madly. Even A-lister celebrities like American Grammy award-winning rapper, Tyga, Nigerian rapper and actor, Falz The Bahdguy, Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele, Nollywood veteran, Kanayo O. Kanayo, Nigerian popular female DJ and Apple Music radio host, Florence Otedola aka DJ Cuppy, Bollywood Actress and dancer Nora Fatehi, etc. took up this challenge on social media and showed their hilarious side. This challenge got really famous and made us all laugh our hearts out.

##### Social media Challenges #4 – Drop Challenge
This challenge was inspired by Shaggy’s track “Banana”. In this challenge, an individual has to appear in front of the camera wearing sunglasses and then drop the sunglasses while doing quirky moves. There are many versions of this challenge like dropping a banana challenge, dropping the cap challenge, etc. This was fun to do the challenge and many celebrities participated in it like Mariah Carey, Kendall Jenner, Ryan Reynolds, etc.

##### Social media Challenges #5 – Dalgona Coffee Challenge
Well, this is one such challenge that everyone was aware of. We could see the rage of this everywhere from Tik Tok to Instagram to Facebook to everywhere on social media. Those who knew nothing about coffee making even they tried their hands on making the famous Dalgona Coffee. This was a food trend that was followed everywhere by everyone. There are so many tutorials on YouTube on how to make Dalgona coffee which proves how popular it got instantly. This trend was first popularized in South Korea and then it got spread globally. From being a food trend, it became a social media challenge that most people participated in.

##### Social media Challenges #6 – Pillow Challenge
This was for all those fashion lovers who love to experiment with their looks and outfits. In this challenge, one had to convert or wear their favorite pillow as an outfit. Sounds Interesting? Cool, it was quite easy as well. One had to take a pillow and just put a designer belt around it and voila a brand-new outfit was ready to flaunt. People took so many pictures of this and posted their pictures on social media. Some people felt that this challenge was bizarre but the fashion junkies loved to take up this challenge.

##### Social media Challenges #7 – Patience Challenge
This was a very cute and mean challenge at the same time as the parents had to put a lot of candies in a bowl in front of their kids. The kids were told not to touch the candies until the parents are back. The parents left the candies’ bowl in front of the kids and went out to test the patience of the kids. It must have been so hard for the kids to resist touching those candies but to our surprise, most of the kids passed the test as they waited patiently for their parents to return but few could not resist and just took the candies anyway. We can’t complain as this was mean to stop the kids from eating their favorite candies. It was also adorable to watch those little ones waiting patiently for their parents to return. It just made us go Awww.

##### Social media Challenges #8 – The Savage Challenge
The song by Megan Thee Stallion, Savage, was the inspiration behind this challenge. The song became quite a rage on social media and thus The Savage Challenge came into the picture. As a part of the challenge, people had to do a definite dance routine on the Savage song which was a combination of freestyle dance. The dance moves involved hip movements of a different kind to meet the beats of the song. It got popular when the remix version of this song was taken up by Beyonce as a challenge. Many celebrities then took this challenge up.

##### Social media Challenges #9 – The Super Bowl Challenge
When the two legendary singers JLo and Shakira got featured in the “SuperBowl” ceremony where their dance moves were choreographed by the Royal Family themselves. It got viral because of the extraordinary and beautiful moves. People went crazy and took this challenge up and started moving their bodies. Many A-listed celebrities took up this challenge like Jennifer Lopez, Sanya Malhotra, Mithila Palkar, Sandeepa Dhar, etc. One can understand the rage behind this. When Shakira and JLo are a part of something it is obvious that it is going to get viral.

##### Social media Challenges #10 – Bin Isolation Outing Challenge
This is quite an interesting challenge which was started in Australia by Danielle Askew, a kindergarten teacher from Hervey Bay and then it got viral. This social media challenge is all about dressing up in one’s favorite superhero or fictional character like Disney characters and then taking their trash to the curb. This was a fun social media challenge that people loved to do as they got a chance to dress up as their favorite characters during the pandemic where people were mostly wearing jammies and regular indoor clothes. Also, it is so different to dress up for taking the garbage out. Sounds interesting.

##### Social media Challenges #11 – Between Art and Quarantine Challenge
This challenge was for all those creative people who love to do jugaad and DIYs. The art and museum lovers could experiment with anything that was available in their homes or was convenient for them to alter and use. All they had to do was to replicate their favorite artwork like the famous Monalisa painting or any other famous artwork on their own selves. The participants used things like toilet paper, old magazines, old clothes, or any item that was readily available at their places. Some of the ideas were very creative and inspirational. This challenge got viral instantly and many people showcased their talents by participating in it.

##### Social media Challenges #12 – Beauty Mode Challenge
During the lockdown, people were mostly chilling at home in their pajamas with no makeup on. So, the TikTokers came up with this bright idea of using the beauty mode on their TikTok app to transform their looks from a non-makeup look to a full makeup look. In this challenge, people came in front of their cameras and turned on the beauty mode with a song or a dialogue in the background and then turned off the beauty mode. That made the video very interesting. Many Bollywood celebrities took up this challenge like Neha Dhupia, Amyra Dastur, Jannat Zubair, etc.

##### Social media Challenges #13 – Wipe it Down Challenge
In this challenge, the song “Wipe It Down” by BMW Kenny plays in the background and a person stands in front of a mirror and the video begins with the person wearing an outfit and then they wipe down the mirror and appear in a new look with a different outfit. Then they continue to wipe the mirror down and go back in the original outfit and then come back to another outfit and this goes on for some time where the song keeps playing in the background. Many a-listed celebrities took this challenge up like the famous YouTuber Lily Singh, JoJo Siwa, Will Smith, Jason Derulo, etc. A fun challenge where Lily Singh just nailed it.

##### Social media Challenges #14 – Gesture Challenge
This challenge was introduced to us in the initial days of 2020. In this challenge, one had to imitate the emoji gestures to a fast-paced background track using one’s own fingers. This is a Tiktok challenge where the users had to imitate the series of hand emojis that appeared on their screens. Our Instagram feed was flooded with this challenge as this one was available as a filter on Instagram. Many people found it really complicated but it wasn’t as complicated as it felt. This challenge was also called the Hand Emoji Challenge. Celebrities like Nick Jonas, Kevin Jonas, Alia Bhatt, Ankita Konwar, Jacqueline Fernandes, etc. took up this challenge.

##### Social media Challenges #15 – Flip the Switch Challenge
This challenge was inspired by the 2018 Drake song “Nonstop”. In this challenge, two people stand in front of a bathroom mirror and film themselves. One person stands closer to the mirror filming while the other person stands further from the front and the other person who was standing at a distance usually danced. In this viral social media challenge, people even switched clothes, poses, and sometimes, even attitudes when the lights would switch off and then back on. This was fun to do challenge and celebrities like Sameera Reddy, Jennifer Lopez, and Camila Cabello.

##### Social media Challenges #16 – Until Tomorrow Challenge
In this challenge, the users of Instagram had to post a silly photo of themselves on their Instagram page, with the caption ‘Until Tomorrow’. Now, the trick was that if an oblivious browser double-tapped on the picture, he or she used to get a DM from the person who posted it to participate in the challenge. The photo had to stay up on their Instagram feed for the whole day before it could be deleted. This was quite a daring challenge to participate in. Also, the people who double-tapped on the picture got trapped unknowingly.

##### Social media Challenges #17 – Vogue Challenge
This challenge was started by an Oslo-based student named Salma Noor after she tweeted an alternative cover of herself under the caption “Being black is not a crime.” Noor posted the image as an anti-racism protest and gradually this challenge got viral internationally. In India, TikTok stars started editing photos of themselves onto the cover of Vogue magazine. It gave all the budding fashionistas, makeup artists, and creative people a chance to showcase their creativity. Everyone had their own take on how the cover should be, hence all of us got to see so many amazing and different ideas. This challenge got viral internationally and many people took this challenge up which was super creative.

##### Social media Challenges #18 – OhNaNa Challenge
This challenge was started by a little 6-year-old girl named Aliyana Symone Alvarez or simply “Ali” who is the niece of Maja Salvador’s boyfriend Rambo Nuñez. This challenge got popular because of the famous song “Oh Nanana” which is a collaboration between the Brazillian music artists Bonde R300 and KondZilla. This dance routine is fun, crazy, and quirky which can leave anyone feeling like a dancing pro. Celebrities like Raveena Tandon took to Instagram to share the video that she made with her daughter Rasha taking up this dance challenge.

##### Social media Challenges #19 – ‘Who is More’ Challenge
This is a very interesting challenge for which there should be at least 2 people. It can be done with friends, siblings, cousins, parents anybody who knows each other. This is a fun challenge in which some super fun and quirky questions are asked by the individuals present and they have to reply instantly like one can ask “who is more likely to wake up late”? and both have to reply instantly. This challenge is a great way of involving our near and dear ones and enjoying the time with each other. Many celebrities took this challenge that entertained all of us like